# pathfinding
Implementation of A* and IDA* pathfinding algorithms

Fibonacci heap implementation by Daniel Borowski (https://github.com/danielborowski/fibonacci-heap-python/blob/master/fib-heap.py) with bug fix on lines 53 and 139

This is an incomplete version of my bachelor's thesis code. I have since lost the completed version. On this repository is what I could recover. I may possibly re-create the completed version one day (I still have the paper).

Usage:
The user must define a "scenario" object, which contains information regarding the structure of the graph. As an example, the characteristics for a scenario involving a 3x3 sliding tile puzzle is given.
1- Each possible position or state of the scenario must be able to be uniquely identifiable by a character or numeric value. Example: for a given state of the sliding tile puzzle, the numbers are listed left to right, with 0 representing the empty space.
2- For each position or state, the scenario object must be able to determine a list of tuples containing all of the adjacent states as well as the corresponding edge costs via the function neighbors(state). Example: On the sliding tile puzzle, given the representation of a state, neighbors(state) returns a list of the states resulting from one move (sliding a tile), with all edge costs being 1.
3- The scenario object must define a function named heuristic(state, target_state) which estimates the distatnce from a given state to the algorithm's target state, in accordance to the properties required by A* and IDA*. Example: For a given sliding tile puzzle state, each tile determines the manhattan distance between its current position and its sought position in the target state. The manhattan distances for all tiles are added together.
4- The scenario must define default_start() and default_target(), for when these are ommitted. Example: On the sliding tile puzzle, default_start() generates a random solvable shuffling and default_target() is declared as the solved state 123456780.
5- For IDA* specifically, the scenario must define max_depth(start) which takes in the starging state and determines the maximum bound the algorithm is allowed to reach before halting. Example: The number of possible 3x3 sliding tile puzzle configurations is 181440. It's therefore guaranteed that no shortest path would pass through more graph nodes than this.
6- Optionally define print_path(target, p) to reconstruct the shortest path. This takes in the target state and a dictionary p of previous nodes (basically a backwards linked list) generated by the solver.

The solvers AStarSolver or IDAStarSolver are initialized with the chosen scenario. Then call solve(start, target) to find the shortest path from start to target.

Included example scenarios are:
1- both 3x3 and 4x4 sliding tile puzzles.
2- Conversion of a sequence of the characers A and B into the shortest possible sequence of 1 and 0, under a given conversion table, such as (A->00, B->010, BA->0110, BB->0111, ABB->1) for example.
3- Orthogonal and diagonal movement in a grid filled with random obstacles, with the goal of moving from the bottom right corner to the opposite corner. Orthogonal movement has a cost of 10 and diagonal movement a cost of 14.
4- Same as 3, but with the movment of a chess knight instead. All movement has a cost of 1.
